getting_started/quickstart_2.mdx, before:

---
title: "Quick start: Categorization @Cameron content"
description: "See Teal in action by categorizing the transactions in your cashflow statement into ledgers."
icon: "bolt"
---

<Note>
  We recommend first completing [Quick start: Reports](setup) before following this guide.
</Note>

This Quick start guide will walk you through the steps to configure Teal's auto-categorization pipeline by using 
the cash flow report from the previous guide.  

## 1. Configure the auto-categorization pipeline
Start by opening the **Categorization** section of the [Developer portal](https://developer.teal.dev/categorization). 
Here you will see the categorization pipeline, which is intended to be a first cut at categorizing transactions 
into the appropriate accounting ledgers. This provides a better UX for the user, as they will not need to manually categorize the majority of transactions.

This pipeline consists of three categorization steps, each of which can be indepedently enabled and configured. We won't go into a lot of detail 
in this quick start, but you can visit [categorization configuration](/configuration/categorization_config) for more information. 

<AccordionGroup>
  <Accordion 
  icon="circle-1" 
  title="Transfers Between Accounts"
  >
    This feature recognizes when a transaction is a transfer of funds between two financial accounts. 
    Tracking the movements of funds between financial accounts is important as they are are movements of cash 
    within the business, rather than into or out of the business. This ensures that these transactions are 
    not "double counted" as cash inflows or cash outflows.

    <Tip>
    We recommend enabling this feature in most circumstances.
    </Tip>
    
  </Accordion>
  <Accordion
    icon="circle-2"
    title="Categorization Rules"
  >
    Platforms have the ability to set their own categorization rules. This feature enables you to define 
    specific rules, which, when matched, will automatically categorize a transaction into a particular ledger.

    We provide a lot of flexibility around crafting these rules (details can be [found here](/configuration/categorization_config)). 
    For this guide, we suggest experimenting with some basic rules such as: 
    1. Categorize a transaction based on vendor description:
    ```python
    match("Slack", t.description)
    ```
    2. Categorize a transaction based on vendor description and above a threshold amount
    ```python
    match("Chevron", t.description) and t.amount > 50
    ```
  </Accordion>
   <Accordion
    icon="circle-3"
    title="AI Categorization"
  >
    You can also turn on AI categorization if you would like AI to attempt to categorize transactions 
    that don't categorize in steps 1 and 2. This features uses a large language model to categorize transactions 
    into the appropriate ledger. Find out more [here](/configuration/categorization_config)

    <Tip>
    Our categorization LLM is under active development and you can expect the accuracy and speed to improve in the coming months.
    </Tip>

  </Accordion>
</AccordionGroup>

## 2. Test the auto-categorizer

You can run categorization tests to check the accuracy and recategorize transactions for specific ledgers 
from within the [Developer portal](https://developer.teal.dev/categorization).

Once you are ready to test your auto-categorization configuration, select a User from the dropdown menu to view 
their financial account ledgers. Click **Run Test** to view the output of categorization for the transactions contained
in that ledger. 

When you are satisfied with the results of the auto-categorizer, you can now view a significantly more useful cashflow report for your users.

## 3. Viewed an updated cash flow report

As outlined in [Quick start: Reports](/getting_started/Quickstart), generating a cash flow report is an as simple as 
calling the [Get Cashflow endpoint](/api-reference/reports/get_cashflow_statement).

    ``` Shell
    curl --request GET \
     --url 'https://api.sandbox.teal.dev/v0/reports/users/user_id/cashflow-statement?start_date=START_DATE&end_date=END_DATE' \
     --header 'accept: application/json' \
     --header 'authorization: Bearer <token>'
     ```

The API should now return an object with the transactions categorized to the appropriate ledgers.

Commit message:

Standardized language
Cashflow -> Cash flow
Cash flow statement -> Cash flow report

getting_started/quickstart_2.mdx, after:

---
title: "Quick start: Categorization @Cameron content"
description: "See Teal in action by categorizing the transactions in your cash flow report into ledgers."
icon: "bolt"
---

<Note>
  We recommend first completing [Quick start: Reports](setup) before following this guide.
</Note>

This Quick start guide will walk you through the steps to configure Teal's auto-categorization pipeline by using 
the cash flow report from the previous guide.  

## 1. Configure the auto-categorization pipeline
Start by opening the **Categorization** section of the [Developer portal](https://developer.teal.dev/categorization). 
Here you will see the categorization pipeline, which is intended to be a first cut at categorizing transactions 
into the appropriate accounting ledgers. This provides a better UX for the user, as they will not need to manually categorize the majority of transactions.

This pipeline consists of three categorization steps, each of which can be indepedently enabled and configured. We won't go into a lot of detail 
in this quick start, but you can visit [categorization configuration](/configuration/categorization_config) for more information. 

<AccordionGroup>
  <Accordion 
  icon="circle-1" 
  title="Transfers Between Accounts"
  >
    This feature recognizes when a transaction is a transfer of funds between two financial accounts. 
    Tracking the movements of funds between financial accounts is important as they are are movements of cash 
    within the business, rather than into or out of the business. This ensures that these transactions are 
    not "double counted" as cash inflows or cash outflows.

    <Tip>
    We recommend enabling this feature in most circumstances.
    </Tip>
    
  </Accordion>
  <Accordion
    icon="circle-2"
    title="Categorization Rules"
  >
    Platforms have the ability to set their own categorization rules. This feature enables you to define 
    specific rules, which, when matched, will automatically categorize a transaction into a particular ledger.

    We provide a lot of flexibility around crafting these rules (details can be [found here](/configuration/categorization_config)). 
    For this guide, we suggest experimenting with some basic rules such as: 
    1. Categorize a transaction based on vendor description:
    ```python
    match("Slack", t.description)
    ```
    2. Categorize a transaction based on vendor description and above a threshold amount
    ```python
    match("Chevron", t.description) and t.amount > 50
    ```
  </Accordion>
   <Accordion
    icon="circle-3"
    title="AI Categorization"
  >
    You can also turn on AI categorization if you would like AI to attempt to categorize transactions 
    that don't categorize in steps 1 and 2. This features uses a large language model to categorize transactions 
    into the appropriate ledger. Find out more [here](/configuration/categorization_config)

    <Tip>
    Our categorization LLM is under active development and you can expect the accuracy and speed to improve in the coming months.
    </Tip>

  </Accordion>
</AccordionGroup>

## 2. Test the auto-categorizer

You can run categorization tests to check the accuracy and recategorize transactions for specific ledgers 
from within the [Developer portal](https://developer.teal.dev/categorization).

Once you are ready to test your auto-categorization configuration, select a User from the dropdown menu to view 
their financial account ledgers. Click **Run Test** to view the output of categorization for the transactions contained
in that ledger. 

When you are satisfied with the results of the auto-categorizer, you can now view a significantly more useful cashflow report for your users.

## 3. Viewed an updated cash flow report

As outlined in [Quick start: Reports](/getting_started/Quickstart), generating a cash flow report is an as simple as 
calling the [Get Cash flow endpoint](/api-reference/reports/get_cashflow_statement).

    ``` Shell
    curl --request GET \
     --url 'https://api.sandbox.teal.dev/v0/reports/users/user_id/cashflow-statement?start_date=START_DATE&end_date=END_DATE' \
     --header 'accept: application/json' \
     --header 'authorization: Bearer <token>'
     ```

The API should now return an object with the transactions categorized to the appropriate ledgers.
