getting_started/quickstart.mdx, before:

---
title: "Quick start 1: Reports @Ian review"
description: "See Teal in action by building a real cashflow report."
icon: "bolt"
---

This Quick start guide will walk you through the steps to build a cashflow report, all while helping you familiarize
yourself with the Teal API along the way. 

<Note>
  You'll need to have completed the steps in [Initial Setup](setup) 
  guide before following this guide.
</Note>

## By the end of this guide you will have:

1. **Configured a new user**
2. **Submitted outside transactions**
4. **Generated a cashflow report from the User's transactions**

Sounds good? Let's get started.

## 1. Configure a new user
<AccordionGroup>
  <Accordion icon="circle-1" title="Pick a Chart of Accounts">
Every user needs to have a [Chart of Accounts](configuration/chart_of_accounts_config) (CoA). Your Platform 
comes with default templates that you can use. Visit the [Developer Portal](https://developer.teal.dev) to pick
a template for your new **User**. Take note of the `coa_template_id`.

<Tip>
You can view and edit these templates in the [Developer Portal](https://developer.teal.dev) 
or via the API. You'll likely want to do this later when you get to tailoring your chart
of accounts based on your unique user's needs. 
</Tip>
  </Accordion>
  <Accordion
    icon="circle-2"
    title="Create a User"
  >
    Create a new user by calling the [Create User endpoint](/api-reference/users/create_user). Replace the query
    parameters with your desired user `name`, the `coa_template_id` that you
    copied from the [Developer Portal](https://developer.teal.dev), and the appropriate start date in `ISO 8061` format for your
    new user.
    
    <Note>The correct start date for a user is whichever is the later date between the **formation date of the business** or the **first day of the business's financial year**.</Note>

    ``` Shell
    curl --request POST \
     --url 'https://api.sandbox.teal.dev/v0/users?name=USER_NAME&entries_start=STARTDATE&template_id=TEMPLATE_ID' \
     --header 'accept: application/json'
     --header 'authorization: Bearer <token>'
     ```

  </Accordion>
</AccordionGroup>

## 2. Submit outside transactions

You probably want to use Teal to transform real-world business transactions into accounting information. To enable this,
you need to submit these transactions into Teal.


<AccordionGroup>
   <Accordion
    icon="circle-1"
    title="Create a financial account ledger"
  >
   
   Real-world transactions need to be mapped to a ledger in the User's chart of accounts. 
   [Create a new financial account ledger](transactions/create_ledger) by calling the [Create ledger](api-reference/ledgers/create_ledger)
   endpoint.

   <Tip>
   These ledgers are unique to each user and represent their corresponding financial accounts in the real world. For information
   on how to set these ledgers up properly, visit [creating ledgers](transactions/create_ledger)
   </Tip> 

   For this exercise, let's create a bank account ledger with the following parameters:
    ```Shell
      --sort_code 1050
      --name Chase Check 1234
      --ledger_type asset
      --debit_credit debit
      --financial_account_type bank_account
      --report_cashflow true
    ```

    ```Shell
    curl --request post \
    --url 'https://api.sandbox.teal.dev/v0/users/{user_id}/ledgers?sort_code=1050&name=Chase Checking 1234&ledger_type=asset&debit_credit=debit&financial_account_type=bank_account&report_cashflow=true' \
    --header 'Authorization: Bearer <token>' \
    --header 'Content-Type: '
    ```

  </Accordion>
  <Accordion icon="circle-2" title="Submit transactions">

    In this example, you will use the [Create transactions endpoint](api-reference/transactions/create_transactions) 
    to [submit transactions](/transactions/submitting). We encourage you prepare and submit a diverse set of banking 
    transactions so that you can see Teal in action. 
    
    If you want to move to the next step quickly, you can also use **this transaction list** file that we have prepared.

    <Tip>
    You can also use our [data integrations](/configuration/data_sources_config) 
    so that Teal can do the work for you of fetching transactions for you.
    </Tip>

    ``` Shell
    curl --request GET \
     --url 'https://api.sandbox.teal.dev/v0/reports/users/user_id/cashflow-statement?start_date=START_DATE&end_date=END_DATE' \
     --header 'accept: application/json' \
     --header 'authorization: Bearer <token>'
     ```

  </Accordion>
</AccordionGroup>

## 3. Generate a cash flow report

You've set up a User and submitted transactions into their financial account ledger. Now it's time to do something useful, like generating a [cash flow report](/reports/cashflow). 
This is as simple as calling the [Get Cashflow endpoint](/api-reference/reports/get_cashflow_statement).

    ``` Shell
    curl --request GET \
     --url 'https://api.sandbox.teal.dev/v0/reports/users/user_id/cashflow-statement?start_date=START_DATE&end_date=END_DATE' \
     --header 'accept: application/json' \
     --header 'authorization: Bearer <token>'
     ```

At this stage, calling the [Get Cashflow endpoint](/api-reference/reports/get_cashflow_statement) returns 
an object with associated journal entries, but you'll notice that the transactions are all currently uncategorized. 

Accurate categorization is an essential component of a great accounting product. We have developed a **categorization pipeline** 
to help with work of categorizing transactions. You can learn more [here](/configuration/categorization_config)
or jump right into our Quickstart Categorization guide to see it in action.

Commit message:

Standardized language
Cashflow -> Cash flow
Cash flow statement -> Cash flow report

getting_started/quickstart.mdx, after:

---
title: "Quick start 1: Reports @Ian review"
description: "See Teal in action by building a real cash flow report."
icon: "bolt"
---

This Quick start guide will walk you through the steps to build a cash flow report, all while helping you familiarize
yourself with the Teal API along the way. 

<Note>
  You'll need to have completed the steps in [Initial Setup](setup) 
  guide before following this guide.
</Note>

## By the end of this guide you will have:

1. **Configured a new user**
2. **Submitted outside transactions**
4. **Generated a cash flow report from the User's transactions**

Sounds good? Let's get started.

## 1. Configure a new user
<AccordionGroup>
  <Accordion icon="circle-1" title="Pick a Chart of Accounts">
Every user needs to have a [Chart of Accounts](configuration/chart_of_accounts_config) (CoA). Your Platform 
comes with default templates that you can use. Visit the [Developer Portal](https://developer.teal.dev) to pick
a template for your new **User**. Take note of the `coa_template_id`.

<Tip>
You can view and edit these templates in the [Developer Portal](https://developer.teal.dev) 
or via the API. You'll likely want to do this later when you get to tailoring your chart
of accounts based on your unique user's needs. 
</Tip>
  </Accordion>
  <Accordion
    icon="circle-2"
    title="Create a User"
  >
    Create a new user by calling the [Create User endpoint](/api-reference/users/create_user). Replace the query
    parameters with your desired user `name`, the `coa_template_id` that you
    copied from the [Developer Portal](https://developer.teal.dev), and the appropriate start date in `ISO 8061` format for your
    new user.
    
    <Note>The correct start date for a user is whichever is the later date between the **formation date of the business** or the **first day of the business's financial year**.</Note>

    ``` Shell
    curl --request POST \
     --url 'https://api.sandbox.teal.dev/v0/users?name=USER_NAME&entries_start=STARTDATE&template_id=TEMPLATE_ID' \
     --header 'accept: application/json'
     --header 'authorization: Bearer <token>'
     ```

  </Accordion>
</AccordionGroup>

## 2. Submit outside transactions

You probably want to use Teal to transform real-world business transactions into accounting information. To enable this,
you need to submit these transactions into Teal.


<AccordionGroup>
   <Accordion
    icon="circle-1"
    title="Create a financial account ledger"
  >
   
   Real-world transactions need to be mapped to a ledger in the User's chart of accounts. 
   [Create a new financial account ledger](transactions/create_ledger) by calling the [Create ledger](api-reference/ledgers/create_ledger)
   endpoint.

   <Tip>
   These ledgers are unique to each user and represent their corresponding financial accounts in the real world. For information
   on how to set these ledgers up properly, visit [creating ledgers](transactions/create_ledger)
   </Tip> 

   For this exercise, let's create a bank account ledger with the following parameters:
    ```Shell
      --sort_code 1050
      --name Chase Check 1234
      --ledger_type asset
      --debit_credit debit
      --financial_account_type bank_account
      --report_cashflow true
    ```

    ```Shell
    curl --request post \
    --url 'https://api.sandbox.teal.dev/v0/users/{user_id}/ledgers?sort_code=1050&name=Chase Checking 1234&ledger_type=asset&debit_credit=debit&financial_account_type=bank_account&report_cashflow=true' \
    --header 'Authorization: Bearer <token>' \
    --header 'Content-Type: '
    ```

  </Accordion>
  <Accordion icon="circle-2" title="Submit transactions">

    In this example, you will use the [Create transactions endpoint](api-reference/transactions/create_transactions) 
    to [submit transactions](/transactions/submitting). We encourage you prepare and submit a diverse set of banking 
    transactions so that you can see Teal in action. 
    
    If you want to move to the next step quickly, you can also use **this transaction list** file that we have prepared.

    <Tip>
    You can also use our [data integrations](/configuration/data_sources_config) 
    so that Teal can do the work for you of fetching transactions for you.
    </Tip>

    ``` Shell
    curl --request GET \
     --url 'https://api.sandbox.teal.dev/v0/reports/users/user_id/cashflow-statement?start_date=START_DATE&end_date=END_DATE' \
     --header 'accept: application/json' \
     --header 'authorization: Bearer <token>'
     ```

  </Accordion>
</AccordionGroup>

## 3. Generate a cash flow report

You've set up a User and submitted transactions into their financial account ledger. Now it's time to do something useful, like generating a [cash flow report](/reports/cashflow). 
This is as simple as calling the [Get Cash flow endpoint](/api-reference/reports/get_cashflow_statement).

    ``` Shell
    curl --request GET \
     --url 'https://api.sandbox.teal.dev/v0/reports/users/user_id/cashflow-statement?start_date=START_DATE&end_date=END_DATE' \
     --header 'accept: application/json' \
     --header 'authorization: Bearer <token>'
     ```

At this stage, calling the [Get Cash flow endpoint](/api-reference/reports/get_cashflow_statement) returns 
an object with associated journal entries, but you'll notice that the transactions are all currently uncategorized. 

Accurate categorization is an essential component of a great accounting product. We have developed a **categorization pipeline** 
to help with work of categorizing transactions. You can learn more [here](/configuration/categorization_config)
or jump right into our Quickstart Categorization guide to see it in action.
