configuration/chart_of_accounts_config.mdx, before:

---
title: "Charts of accounts"
description: "This page walks you through configuring the chart of accounts for your users."
icon: "gear"
---

## What is a chart of accounts

Every user needs to have a chart of accounts (CoA). A chart of accounts is the full set of ledgers that a 
user has access to when categorizing transactions or creating journal entries. 

<Info>
  A company's chart of accounts typically reflects
  the unique aspects of the business, and so there is no single standard.
  However, there are certain protocols that companies are expected to follow
  when filing their taxes with the IRS (or relevant body).
</Info>

### Contents of a chart of accounts

A chart of accounts in Teal is a set of two types of ledger objects: ledgers and ledger totals. 
Ledgers contain line entries with accounting information. Ledger totals contain no data on their own, 
but rather are used to sum up groups of ledgers when generating reports.

Each ledger and ledger total has a `sort_code`. In other accounting systems, this is sometimes referred 
to as a "ledger code" or "GL code." The `sort_code` is an integer that determines the order 
in which the ledgers appear in the chart of accounts and reports.

Each ledger total has a `start_code` and `end_code` that determines the range of sort codes that it will sum when generating reports. 
Ledger totals sum only ledgers, they do not sum other ledger totals.

### `sort_code` conventions

Sort codes are ordered digit by digit, starting from the leftmost position. The sequence is determined by the value 
of each digit in its respective position. For example, 1123 comes before 220 because the initial '1' in 1123 
is lower than the '2' in 220, regardless of the length of the code. This is a common accounting convention.

Aside from this sorting convention, Teal does not enforce any other conventions or patterns on sort codes. 
However, it is recommended to adopt a common convention such as starting all ledgers 
of the same type with the same number (assets start with 1, liabilities start with 2, etc.). 
The default charts of accounts provided by Teal follow best practices for `sort_code` numbering; you can feel 
free to follow the same convention or adopt your own.

Having an understandable `sort_code` convention is especially important if the accounting data will 
ever be used by professional accountants or bookkeepers, as they will expect this.

## Default Charts of Accounts

To assist you in getting set up, your platform will contain four chart of accounts (CoA) templates by default, one for each of the four common entity types:

- **Sole Proprietorship**
- **Partnership**
- **C-Corp**
- **S-Corp**

You can manage CoA templates and the ledgers associated with each via the [Chart of Accounts endpoint](/api-reference/chart_of_accounts/get_coa_templates), or via the [Developer Portal](https://developer.teal.dev/chart_of_accounts).

### Customizing the default chart of accounts

The default chart of account templates are quite comprehensive and not tailored to any specific industry. You may 
want to modify these defaults so that they are more tailored to the end users that you serve.

While you can create new CoA templates from scratch, it is often easier to clone one of the default charts of 
accounts and modify it to suit your needs. 

<Info>
When creating or modifying a chart of accounts, take care that the `start_code` and `end_code` for the ledger totals make sense.

**For example**, a user will be mislead if any asset ledger `sort_code`s fall outside the `start_code` and `end_code` of a ledger total 
named "Total Assets", as this will cause "Total Assets" to not sum all of the asset ledgers in the user's reports.
</Info>

## Managing user-specific ledgers

Once a user is created, they will have every ledger from their specified chart of accounts template available to them. 
Future changes to the template will not affect existing users.

<Info>
When a user is created with a default chart of accounts, the ledger names will be identical to the ledger names in 
the default chart of accounts, however, every user's ledger "ids" and ledger total "ids" are unique. 
These "ids" are not shared between users.
</Info>

Users will need some additional user-specific ledgers beyond the default CoA in order to do their bookkeeping. 
At a minimum, they will need to add at least one financial account ledger to track 
the funds in their bank account. Financial account ledgers can be created via 
the [Create Ledger endpoint](/api-reference/ledgers/create_ledger). See the guide 
on [creating ledgers](/transactions/create_ledger) for more information.

In addition, you may opt to allow users to create their own custom ledgers beyond the 
defaults you have provided. You can use the [Create Ledger endpoint](/api-reference/ledgers/create_ledger) 
to allow users to create their own ledgers.

When creating a ledger, take care to enforce the `sort_code` conventions of the chart of accounts 
template that the user is using. For example, if the user creates a new asset ledger, it should 
have a `sort_code` that falls between the `start_code` and `end_code` of the "Total Assets" ledger total, otherwise it 
will cause the user's reports to be misleading.

Commit message:

Nested ledger updates (CoA and Reports)

configuration/chart_of_accounts_config.mdx, after:

---
title: "Charts of accounts"
description: "This page walks you through configuring the chart of accounts for your users."
icon: "gear"
---

## What is a chart of accounts

Every user needs to have a chart of accounts (CoA). A chart of accounts is the full set of ledgers that a 
user has access to when categorizing transactions or creating journal entries. 

<Info>
  A company's chart of accounts typically reflects
  the unique aspects of the business, and so there is no single standard.
  However, there are certain protocols that companies are expected to follow
  when filing their taxes with the IRS (or relevant body).
</Info>

### Contents of a chart of accounts (CoA)

A chart of accounts (CoA) in Teal is a set of nested ledger objects. Ledgers contain line entries with accounting information. Ledgers can 
also contain child ledgers. For example, you might create an inventory ledger with children ledgers for each type of inventory held. Many 
small businesses use a "flat" CoA template with no nesting, but the ability to nest ledgers enables more complicated use cases. 

Each ledger in the CoA has a `type` (e.g. Assets) and `sub_type` (e.g. Current Assets) that determines how they are treated 
in the accounting reports. Each ledger also has a `sort_code`. In other accounting systems, this is sometimes referred  to as a "ledger code" or "GL code." 
The `sort_code` is an integer that determines the order in which the ledgers are displayed in reports, within their respective `sub_type`.    

### `sort_code` conventions

Sort codes are ordered digit by digit, starting from the leftmost position. The sequence is determined by the value 
of each digit in its respective position. For example, 1123 comes before 220 because the initial '1' in 1123 
is lower than the '2' in 220, regardless of the length of the code. This is a common accounting convention.

Aside from this sorting convention, Teal does not enforce any other conventions or patterns on sort codes. 
However, it is recommended to adopt a common convention such as starting all ledgers 
of the same type with the same number (assets start with 1, liabilities start with 2, etc.). 
The default CoA templates provided by Teal follow best practices for `sort_code` numbering. You can feel 
free to follow the same convention or adopt your own.

Having an understandable `sort_code` convention is especially important if the accounting data will 
ever be used by professional accountants or bookkeepers, as they will expect this.

## Default Charts of Accounts (CoA)

To assist you in getting set up, your platform will contain four CoA templates by default, one for each of the four common entity types:

- **Sole Proprietorship**
- **Partnership**
- **C-Corp**
- **S-Corp**

You can manage CoA templates and the ledgers associated with each via the [Chart of Accounts endpoint](/api-reference/chart_of_accounts/get_coa_templates), or 
via the [Developer Portal](https://developer.teal.dev/chart_of_accounts).

### Customizing the default chart of accounts (CoA)

The default CoA templates are quite comprehensive and not tailored to any specific industry. You may 
want to modify these defaults so that they are more tailored to the end users that you serve.

While you can create new CoA templates from scratch, it is often easier to clone one of the default charts of 
accounts and modify it to suit your needs. 

## Managing user-specific ledgers

Once a user is created, they will have every ledger from their specified CoA template available to them. 
Future changes to the template will not affect existing users.

<Info>
When a user is created with a default CoA, the ledger names will be identical to the ledger names in 
the default companies, however, every user's ledger "ids" are unique. 
These "ids" are not shared between users.
</Info>

Users will need some additional user-specific ledgers beyond the default CoA in order to do their bookkeeping. 
At a minimum, they will need to add at least one financial account ledger to track 
the funds in their bank account. Financial account ledgers can be created via 
the [Create Ledger endpoint](/api-reference/ledgers/create_ledger). See the guide 
on [creating ledgers](/transactions/create_ledger) for more information.

In addition, you may opt to allow users to create their own custom ledgers beyond the 
defaults you have provided. You can use the [Create Ledger endpoint](/api-reference/ledgers/create_ledger) 
to allow users to create their own ledgers.

When creating a ledger, take care to enforce the `sort_code` conventions of the chart of accounts 
template that the user is using.
